DOCSP-13834 crud retrieve (#36)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/retrieve.txt

==============

> Retrieve Data

Author: Yes, but we plan to have a separate fundamentals page for Change Stream.

- Retrieve documents from your collections by using :ref:`find operations <retrieve-find>`
- Perform transformations on documents in your collections by using :ref:`aggregation operations <retrieve-aggregation>`

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

Run the following snippet to load the documents into the ``ratings``
collection of the ``tea`` database:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/retrieve.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin insert docs
   :end-before: end insert docs

Each document contains a rating for a type of tea, which corresponds to
the ``name`` and ``rating`` fields.

.. note::

   Each example truncates the ``ObjectID`` value since the driver
   generates them uniquely.

.. _retrieve-find:

Find Operations
---------------

Use **find operations** to retrieve data from MongoDB. Find operations
consist of the ``Find()`` and ``FindOne()`` functions.

Find All Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``Find()`` function expects you to pass a ``Context`` type and a
query filter. The function returns *all* documents that match the filter as a
``Cursor`` type. If you pass an empty filter, the function returns *all*

> documents in the collection.

Reviewer: Similar to the comment below, I think the last sentence can be removed.

.. To learn how to access data in a cursor, see the :doc:`Cursor
.. </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/cursor>` guide.

Find One Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``FindOne()`` function expects you to pass a ``Context`` type and a
query filter. The function returns *the first document* that matches the
filter as a ``SingleResult`` type. If you pass an empty filter, the

> function returns *a random document* in the collection.

Reviewer: I interpret "a random document" to mean a randomly selected document from the collection. I believe the server behavior is to return the first document it scans. 

https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/glossary/#std-term-natural-order describes the natural ordering of stored documents.

I suggest removing the last sentence. An empty filter matches all documents. An empty filter does not need to be called out as a special case.

Example
```````

The following example passes a context and an aggregation pipeline that:

- Groups reviews by names
- Calculates the average rating of each name

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/retrieve.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin aggregate docs
   :end-before: end aggregate docs

After running the preceding example, the output resembles the following:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Masala has an average rating of 8.5
   Earl Grey has an average rating of 7

For more information on how to construct an aggregation pipeline, see
the MongoDB server manual page on :manual:`Aggregation
</core/aggregation-pipeline/>`.

Additional Information
----------------------

For runnable examples of the find operations, see the :doc:`Find()
</usage-examples/find>` and :doc:`FindOne() </usage-examples/findOne>`
usage examples.

.. For more information on how to specify a query, see the :doc:`Specify
.. a Query </fundamentals/crud/query-document>` guide.

.. For more information on aggregation, see the
.. :doc:`Aggregation </fundamentals/aggregation>` guide.

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - `Find() <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver@v1.7.0/mongo#Collection.Find>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Find() <{+api+}/mongo#Collection.Find>`__
```

> - `Cursor <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver@v1.7.0/mongo#Cursor>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Cursor <{+api+}/mongo#Cursor>`__
```

==============
Retrieve Data
==============

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to retrieve data from your MongoDB
collection using **read operations**.

Read operations allow you to do the following: 

- Retrieve a subset of documents from your collection by using a :ref:`find operation <retrieve-find>` 
- Perform transformations on retrieved documents from your collection using the :ref:`aggregate operation <retrieve-aggregate>`. 

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

To follow along with the examples on this page, run the following
snippet to load the documents into the ``ratings`` collection in the
``tea`` database:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/retrieve.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin insert docs

>    :end-before: end insert docs

Author: agreed -- I will include the insert statement

Each document contains the tea a person tried and their rating on a
scale of 10, which corresponds to the ``name`` and ``rating`` fields.

.. note::

   Each example truncates the ``ObjectID`` value since the driver
   generates them uniquely. 

.. _retrieve-find:

Find operations
---------------

> Use a **find operation** to retrieve a subset of your existing data.

Reviewer 2: nit: I think this description isn't accurate and is redundant with the information presented below. It also doesn't match the plurality of the next sentence, which is more accurate.

```suggestion
Use **find operations** to retrieve data from MongoDB.
```

Find operations consist of the ``Find()`` and ``FindOne()`` functions.

Find All Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``Find()`` function expects you to pass a ``Context`` type and a
filter. The function returns *all* documents that match the filter as a
``Cursor`` type. If you pass an empty filter, the function returns *all*
documents in the collection. 

.. To learn how to access data in a cursor, see the :doc:`Cursor
.. </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/cursor>` guide. 

Find One Document
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``FindOne()`` function expects you to pass a ``Context`` type and a

> filter. The function returns *the first document* that matches the

Reviewer 2: nit: I believe as a team we've decided to use the term `query filter`. It's okay to use `filter` in other instances as long as we state the full name at the beginning of the paragraph imo.
```suggestion
query filter. The function returns *the first document* that matches the
```

filter as a ``SingleResult`` type. If you pass an empty filter, the
function returns *a random document* in the collection.

To learn how to access data in a ``SingleResult`` see the :ref:`BSON
<bson-unmarshalling>` guide.

Example
```````

The following example passes a context and a filter to the ``Find()``
function, which matches documents where the ``ratings`` field falls
between ``5`` and ``10``:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/CRUD/retrieve.go
   :language: go
   :dedent:
   :start-after: begin find docs
   :end-before: end find docs

After running the preceding example, the output resembles the following:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

    //results truncated
   [{_id ObjectID("...")} {name Chai} {rating 7}]
   [{_id ObjectID("...")} {name Earl Grey} {rating 9}]

> For a runnable ``find()`` example, see the :doc:`Find Multiple

Reviewer 2: issue: we should match the capitalization of the function
```suggestion
For a runnable ``Find()`` example, see the :doc:`Find Multiple
```

Author: Good catch! I actually meant to remove this part since I included it in the "Additional Information" section

Documents </usage-examples/find>` page. 

.. _retrieve-aggregate:

Aggregate Operation
-------------------

> Use the **aggregate operation** to retrieve and transform a subset of
> your existing data. The aggregate operation consists of the
> ``Aggregate()`` function.

Reviewer 2: issue: Plurality is incorrect here, as there is no singular `aggregate operation` that we typically refer to. More accurate is `aggregation operations`.

```suggestion
Use **aggregation operations** to retrieve and transform your data. 
Peform aggregation operations using the ``Aggregate()`` function.
```

Aggregation
~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``Aggregate()`` function expects you to pass a ``Context`` type and
an **aggregation pipeline**. An aggregation pipeline defines how to
transform data through stages such as specifying how to match documents,
rename fields, and group values. 

The function returns the resulting documents in a ``Cursor`` type. If

> you omit the ``match`` stage, the pipeline proceeds using all documents

Reviewer 2: nit and suggestion: Since this is a one-off reference to the `$match` stage (which is what it is called), consider linking to the `$match` documentation.

```suggestion
you omit the :ref:`$match <some-server-ref>` stage, the pipeline proceeds using all documents
```

Author: there wasn't a ref on [their page](https://github.com/mongodb/docs/blob/master/source/reference/operator/aggregation/match.txt), so I used the snooty directive

in the collection.

.. To learn how to access data in a cursor, see the :doc:`Cursor
.. </fundamentals/crud/read-operations/cursor>` guide. 

Example
```````

The following example passes a context and an aggregation pipeline that:

> - Groups orders by names

Reviewer 2: issue: Are they orders? It seems to me they are reviews?

   :end-before: end insert docs

Each document contains a rating for a type of tea, which corresponds to

> the ``type`` and ``rating`` fields.

Reviewer: Good catch!
